So, both the HTTP request and
the HTTP response both have a header and
a body.
That for the request, the initial
request the body is typically empty.
So the header is text that
the browser is sending to the server,
saying, hey, I'm Chrome, I want that
document, I accept PNG files, JPEG files.
So it's a lot of information that
the browser is sending to the server.
And when the server is responding,
there is a header.
In that header, for example,
the server adds the status
code such as 404, 500, 200.
Saying that, yeah, I have the file
you requested, I don't have it, or
I have an error, and the body, that is
the actual data that you requested, okay?
When you're in the network
layer within Chrome,
you can click on each request and
actually see the headers.
So if we go to the headers we have,
let me increase the font size
a little bit for you, and
we have their response headers and
the request headers.
So this is going right
now to request the HTML.
All these strings are sent
through the uplink to the server,
and then the server responds with
that information apart from the HTML.
That's how that works.
Just have that in mind for now.
Okay, so HTTP has several versions.
I'm not going to even mention HTTP
1.0 because it's been not deprecated,
but it's not in the wild, and it hasn't
been in the wild for probably 15 years.
So HTTP 1.1, it's still 15% or
20% of the market share.
In fact, how can we know the percentage of
HTTP based network communications,
HTTP 1.1, 2 or even 3?
One resource of information is
a website known as HTTP Archive.
I'm not sure if you've
heard about HTTP Archive.
Have you heard about archive.org,
that's the Internet Archive?
Well, based on the Internet Archive,
it's actually saving resources,
the HTML, CSS of websites.
So you can see here how Google
was like 20 years ago, okay?
So you can actually see how Google was,
you can see the website, okay?
But the Internet Archive is
not saving the HTTP headers or
performance data, okay?
So that was the homepage,
I remember that one.
Well, the logo is not there for
some reason.
There it is.
I used that version of Google, by the way.
But it's just the contents of the file.
Well, HTTP Archive,
it's actually saving not the file but
all the headers, all the information
that is useful for, for
example, web performance, or for analysis.
So here, for example, we can get reports
about the loading speeds of websites.
That's how we know how performance is
doing over time, generally, on the web.
There are a lot of reports here,
from here, we can also check for
example, how many,
I think it's here, State of the Web?
Yeah, how many requests
do we have in HTTP/2?
So this is how it's
getting better over time.
But we are right now on around 68%
of the web is in HTTP/2, okay?
And I will explain what
that is in a minute.
HTTP/3 is 20%, and
there's still some network
connections on 1.1.
So on 1.1, the biggest problem,
that is not the problem today
anymore because we don't have so
many connections on this version,
we have one request per TCP connection.
Which means that if I call you, I can
only request you one file over that call.
So if I wanna download in parallel
more files, I wanna download PNG file,
CSS file, I need to make different calls.
I need to have four phone numbers,
eight phone numbers,
eight phone devices, I'm sorry,
and then call you eight times.
I need to open four TCP connections,
okay, which is kind of a problem.
It was a problem at the time to
download several resources in parallel.
This version accepted GZIP.
I'm not sure if you know this,
but when you're browsing the web,
if everything is set up correctly,
you're downloading ZIP files, at least for
the HTML, the CSS, and
the text-based files.
Everything is zipped, so
then the transfer part is smaller.
HTTP/2 altered performance from scratch.
HTTP/2 came from an experimental protocol
created by Google with the name SPDY.
And that became the standard then that was
created with performance from scratch.
And here was the moment where we realized
that we have to switch to HTTPS.
Because if not,
we cannot change the protocol safely.
HTTP/2 added header compression.
So those headers that I mentioned before
are compressed as well, not with GZIP, but
different algorithm.
But on HTTP 1.1, they were not compressed.
And the space that headers
consume is typically around 1K.
So you have 1K for the request and 1K for
the response,
even if it's an empty response.
So, you have 1.5 to 2 kilobytes,
per request,
wasted just in metadata,
not in the real data.
Well, HTTP/2 is compressing that so
it's not a problem, and
also has something known
as TCP connection reuse.
It opens just one TCP connection and over
that connection it can send and receive
several files at a time, Okay, using
different algorithm, it doesn't matter.
But that's having in mind that HTTP/2
is much better for performance.
And now we have HTTP, before that.
HTTP/2 is TLS-based only,
as we mentioned before.
Today, it's good compatibility.
You just need to upgrade your servers or
use a CDN, okay?
It works with upgrading connections.
So the first connection, we start
with HTTP/1, that is a standard, and
we ask the server, hey server,
I accept 2 if you wanna upgrade.
And the server will say, okay,
let's upgrade, and from now on,
it continues in 2.
If the browser is not supporting 2 or
the server is not supporting HTTP/2,
everything is done over HTTP/1.1.
And HTTP/3 It's exactly the same as
HTTP/2, so it's the same interface.
But instead of using TCP, it's using UDP.
Does anyone know what that means?
You have the face of I know it but
I'm not sure.
>> Universal digital packet or
unstructured digital packet?
>> No, it's not about unstructure,
but I mean, I'm not talking about
what the acronym means, but
what's the difference between TCP and UDP?
>> Yeah, it's packet-based
as opposed to [INAUDIBLE].
>> Both are packet-based.
>> But it's asynchronous.
That UDP doesn't necessarily have to
maintain a handshake continuously.
>> [SOUND] You're close, but
I'm not sure I like the answer.
>> Doesn't UDP allow
dropping some packets,
you can lose some data in the process?
>> Yeah, we are close.
It's not that it's allowing dropping
the packets, but actually what is
happening is it's not detecting if
packages are being delivered or not.
TCP is guaranteeing that packages
will be delivered, and if it's not,
I mean, it's checking that every packet
is getting into the destination,
and if it's not, it's retrying.
>> Is it the ordering?
Is UDP not necessarily in this order
that it's supposed to be [INAUDIBLE]?
>> That's another thing, so actually,
TCP is guarantee the order.
So actually, because when you're
sending messages over TCP,
for example, the message typically
is split in chunks, in packets.
And they go over the network, and
they are traveling around the Internet.
And they might arrive in different orders,
or
maybe one packet is lost, so
that's why TCP is managing that.
UDP, it's more that, okay,
I'm sending this, I don't care,
okay, I will continue my job.
HTTP/3 is based on UDP.
And maybe you're thinking,
well, but what happens then?
My packets will not get
into the destination.
Well, actually, there is another
protocol on top of that that will.
There is a thin layer,
there is much performance that TCP,
that makes things faster.
Anyway, the only thing that you need
to know is that it's faster, and
it's something that you have
to support in your server.
If you don't want to, or
don't have the resources to do that,
maybe your infrastructure team is
telling you we're not going to do that.
The solution you have is a layer on top,
such as Cloudflare.
There are companies, free or paid,
where you add a frontend to your website,
they offer HTTP/3 to your users and
they contact you over an older protocol.
Cloudflare is one example of that, okay?
Anyway, those are the versions
of HTTP are available today.